---
slug: 217c09dedbed4fa189318a0d5d873ee3
title: Abbreviated RSS fields
wordpress_id: 182
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2003/02/25/217c09dedbed4fa189318a0d5d873ee3/'
last_modified_at: 2003-02-25T22:48:37.000Z
---

_I have been giving some thought about this recently. I am
going to release an optional "short-description" feature tonight
that I hope everyone will use for posts longer than a sentence or
two. (instead of the full post text appearing in the feed, only the
short-description will appear). _

_...but I personally want to see the number of page views vs.
Rss feed hits even out a little more. Syndirella, Newsgator, etc
are all great, but they do take away (just a little) from the
community. My hope is people will read a post, make a comment or
two, check out the referrals/pingbacks/trackbacks and all of the
other links that float around .NET Weblogs._

_Sitting back using your favorite aggreator is nice, but you
are definetly missing out on the "full community" here. (NOTE: more
on this later)._ [[ScottW's
ASP.NET WebLog](http://aspnetweblog.com/)]

I really hope this option will be selectable by the reader
rather than the blogger. One of the reasons that I am a fan of RSS
based news aggregation is that it gives me the opportunity to read
posts without having to visit the individual sites to read what
people have written.

Often, I will do an RSS download first thing in the morning
and then be able to read the posts later in the day when I might
not have Internet connectivity such as on a train or working away
from the office.

Of the feeds that I subscribe to, only a small handful have
abbreviated feeds that give only an introduction to each post and
these are the ones where I only read an occasional article. If all
the feeds that I currently subscribe to from dotnetweblogs.com went
this way, that would be a whole load of content from a bunch of
interesting people that I wouldn't get to read.
