---
slug: c5af363240f045a7a3f82b43af7d1a52
title: Custom configuration section handlers
wordpress_id: 253
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2003/08/31/c5af363240f045a7a3f82b43af7d1a52/'
last_modified_at: 2003-08-31T18:45:55.000Z
---

I read [Keith Ballinger](http://www.keithba.net/)'s
excellent
[Web
Services: Architecture and Implementation with .NET](http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0321113594/) a few
months ago, and it gave a fascinating approach to using XML
Serialization. Keith suggests that this was really misnamed and
that the term XML Mapping would be more appropriate because it is
not designed to serialize any CLR object to XML, but rather
designed to map any XML onto some set of CLR objects. Once you take
this view and start to get a handle on the various XML mapping code
attributes, XML serialization suddenly becomes much more
powerful.

For this reason, many of the cases where I have used the DOM
(XmlDocument) or XPathDocument in the past, can now be defined
using a lot less code using XML Serialization. This also makes the
code much more accessible for people with limited XML knowledge to
use and extend in an intuitive manner. I've recently written a base
class for dealing with custom configuration sections using this
approach and thought I'd share it here.

There is an
[
excellent article](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/en-us/dnadvnet/html/vbnet04222003.asp) by Rockford Lhotka that explains what XML
configuration files are and what they're used for so I won't repeat
any of that here. In that article, Rockford demonstrates how to
write the code for a custom configuration section by writing a
class that implements the `IConfigurationSectionHandler`
interface. If you want several config sections in your application,
however, you end up writing a lot of code that is almost
identical.

By using a base class for the configuration section handler, we
can write a minimal amount of code describing simply what settings
we want in our handler. Here is an example configuration settings
class:
    
    <font color="#0000FF">using</font> System;
    <font color="#0000FF">using</font> System.Xml.Serialization;
    
    [CustomConfigHandler("myConfig",Group="sampleConfig")]
    <font color="#0000FF">public class</font> MyConfig : BaseConfigHandler
    {
        [XmlAttribute("myString")]
        <font color="#0000FF">public string</font> MyString;
    
        [XmlAttribute("myInt")]
        <font color="#0000FF">public int</font> MyInt;
    
        <font color="#0000FF">public static</font> MyConfig Current {
            <font color="#0000FF">get</font> { <font color="#0000FF">return</font> (MyConfig)GetCurrent(<font color="#0000FF">typeof</font>(MyConfig)); }
        }
    }
    

This class will parse a configuration section that looks like
this:
    
    
    <sampleConfig>
        <myConfig myString="abc" myInt="123" />
    </sampleConfig>
    

The key points to take from this are that we use an attribute on
the class `CustomConfigHandler` to indicate the name of
the XML node (`myConfig`) and the group name
(`sampleConfig`) and then we use standard XML
Serialization attributes for the fields. This gives us strongly
typed access to our settings. To access a setting in code, we
simply refer to the Current property:
`MyConfig.Current.MyString`.

Finally, we need to indicate in the .config file, where the code
resides to process the custom handler. We do this by including a
pointer to the handler code at the top of the .config file:
    
    
    <configSections>
        <sectionGroup name="sampleConfig">
            <section name="myConfig" type="MyConfig,ConfigTest" />
        </sectionGroup>
    </configSections>
    

This indicates that the class is called MyConfig in the assembly
ConfigTest.

The code for the BaseConfigHandler is
[
here](/software/download/BaseConfigHandler.cs.html) and you can
[
download a sample project](/software/download/ConfigTest.zip) to try out the code.
