---
slug: 47f082e237c44269a6efc8d3c823ab4c
title: Not being the administrator
wordpress_id: 168
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2003/02/14/47f082e237c44269a6efc8d3c823ab4c/'
last_modified_at: 2003-02-14T22:25:24.000Z
---

After a day and a half of running
[without
being an administrator](/2003/02/12.html), I've only run into a refreshingly small
list of "issues":

  * Had to make the Radio Userland folder writeable which it
normally wouldn't be under Program Files.
  * I accidentally removed my admin rights while there was a folder
in the recycle bin that needed admin access to remove, so I
couldn't empty the recycle bin until I added back admin rights,
logged in to empty it, and then removed the rights again.
  * I needed to stop SQL Server to do a backup but the SQL Service
Manager applet sitting in my tray now just gives permission denied.
Running sqlmngr from the Admin command prompt only activated the
instance already running as me, so I had to exit that and then
start another. Of course, I could have done this through a couple
of carefully crafted "net stop" commands, but that would have meant
finding the precise service names.

So far so good, then. What is interesting is that this thinking
is already affecting the projects I'm working on - yesterday, we
made some decisions about how and where to store user data
that was in some way motivated by this approach. In general, the
best thing now is that if there is any doubt about what permissions
basic users have, I can just try it and see if I'm allowed.
