---
slug: d4945f5196e247ee97c3dfabebad0c2f
title: PDC Keynote
wordpress_id: 256
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2003/10/27/d4945f5196e247ee97c3dfabebad0c2f/'
last_modified_at: 2003-10-28T03:37:45.000Z
---

It's probably too early to know what to make of the technical
content shown during the keynote. Presentationally, though, it was
classic. What with showing the Red vs Blue PDC movie that we
probably mostly saw a few weeks ago, and a fantastic VH1 rip-off
"Behind the Technology" movie, Microsoft really know how to send
themselves up.

Gates was typically calm, measured and understated, while the
Don and Chris double-act was animated, amusing, oh and probably
involved more different text editors than most people will have
seen in one session.

My first reaction to the Avalon bits is probably predictable: do
we really need any more ways to make fancy alpha-blended eye candy?
I think we need to keep in mind one subtle point that Bill made:
this stuff is being developed for the hardware we will have in 2 or
3 years time. We'll have much more screen space and I'm looking
forward to my 26" desktop LCD!

I think it will take some time for the implications of WinFS to
become apparent. Nothing we've been shown so far suggests anything
very radical, but I think having a centrally concentrated data
store will probably lead to applications we haven't really thought
of yet.

Finally, too little was shown about Indigo to really understand
how it all hangs together. Suffice it to say that this is an area
that I want to learn more about - it looks quite involved - and I
imagine the "coolness" will become more apparent once we start
looking at how to code against it.
