---
slug: e0c4e27f24f54de7ad188f1bfab9f7cc
title: Chasing the Quest for ASP.NET Scalability
wordpress_id: 327
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2004/05/21/e0c4e27f24f54de7ad188f1bfab9f7cc/'
last_modified_at: 2004-05-21T23:25:56.000Z
---

_In
[
The Quest for ASP.NET Scalability](http://msdn.microsoft.com/asp.net/default.aspx?pull=/library/en-us/dnaspp/html/aspnetscal.asp), Michèle Leroux
Bustamante looks at some of the architectural and design decisions
that may affect ASP.NET application scalability. In addition, she
looks at how you can use Enterprise Services and MSMQ to reduce the
effect of those scalability problems._

This article gives a useful overview of the areas you need to
consider when looking at web application scalability. It covers the
threading models for ASP.NET running with IIS 5 or IIS 6 and looks
at physically scaling the application tiers.

The only comment I would take issue with is this (emphasis
mine):

<blockquote>_An enterprise solution should at least have two
tiers. In a two-tier scenario, the Web server tier could
host...well...the Web server (usually IIS), the Web application,
and possibly business and database access components. The database
server tier allows you to offload the heavy lifting of the database
engine to another, usually more powerful piece of equipment. In
reality, two tiers is rarely enough for an enterprise solution that
takes a beating. Chances are there will be some business processing
that puts greater demand on system resources, such as file I/O
operations, heavy number crunching, and integrated system calls.
So, **there will traditionally be at least three tiers allowing
the Web server to focus on simpler requests**, delegating
business component interactions to a distributed application
tier._</blockquote>

During the processing of these business operations, what exactly
is the web server tier doing? Dealing with all these simpler
requests isn't usually very taxing. I wonder if **tradition**
might have more to do with it than initially appears. Because we
were introduced to 3-tier application design as a solution to the
internet-scale problems of client-server systems, it was natural to
think that this logical architecture applied in the physical realm
too. I remember thinking that that was somehow automatically the
case.

Today, though, I believe it is normally better to keep the
business logic on the web tier and scale horizontally at that level
unless there are good architectural (not specifically scalability)
reasons for doing otherwise (this has been discussed before and
I've mentioned security and service orientation as possible
reasons).
