---
comments: false
date: 2004-09-05T16:59:34.000Z
layout: single
slug: f8b2214ad9804539a7fdf007fa5365a8
title: WS-Security and hashed password stores
wordpress_id: 336
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2004/09/05/f8b2214ad9804539a7fdf007fa5365a8/'
---
[Scott
Watermasysk asks](http://scottwater.com/blog/archive/2004/09/04/13221) how he should deal with password validation
for UsernameTokens with WS-Security if he has stored his passwords
salted and hashed. This is something I've had some discussions
about recently with people in the web services product team.

Fundamentally there is no silver bullet that answers this
question. The hashed option for the UsernameToken does rely on the
same key/password being available on both the client and server in
the same form (i.e. usually the plain text of the password).
Various people have
[
suggested](http://pluralsight.com/blogs/keith/archive/2004/07/03/1532.aspx) an approach that works within these constraints and
that improves things a little. What this amounts to is storing
something on the server that at least means the user's original
plain password isn't available: if the password store is
compromised for this application, the same password used on other
systems is still safe. However, it does mean that compromising this
password store is as good as having the plain text password as far
as this application goes.

What you choose to do in this situation depends on what level of
security you are comfortable with and the environment that your
application is operating in. There are a number of options:

  * In an enterprise application, you might be able to deploy PKI
machine certificates with your client application. This gives you
the opportunity to encrypt message including the UsernameToken and
so the password can be sent without hashing.
  * Over the Internet in a point-to-point infrastructure, you might
choose to deploy the web service using SSL (HTTPS). Again this
allows the password to be sent in the clear within the
UsernameToken because the transport layer will take care of the
encryption. This is non-ideal if you want to apply routing to the
SOAP messages but might be an acceptable compromise.
  * In a corporate environment you might be able to use Kerberos
instead of UsernameTokens.
  * You might choose to store the passwords with reversible
encryption instead of salt/hash. This protects passwords from
casual browsing of the password store but enables you to retrieve
the original password and use the hashed option to
UsernameToken.
  * You might use an approach like Keith Brown's (linked above) and
require manipulation of the password on the client before it is
sent hashed.

I'm sure there are other alternatives too. How have you solved
this problem?
