---
comments: false
date: 2004-01-04T02:41:07.000Z
layout: single
slug: bde7c0ad6be84368bd5ce2483aabd831
title: Publishing with FrontPage 2003
wordpress_id: 274
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2004/01/03/bde7c0ad6be84368bd5ce2483aabd831/'
---
I've updated my site so that I can publish general pages
(non-blog posts) using FrontPage 2003. Looking back, I guess I used
to look down on FrontPage users as people who really really
couldn't manage HTML. In early versions, FrontPage used to do
horrible things to perfectly good markup adding superfluous tags
and generally messing up layouts.

A few weeks ago, I think following some posts mentioning
FrontPage by [Robert
Scoble](http://radio.weblogs.com/0001011), I decided to take a look at the latest version that is
part of Office System 2003.

Things sure seem different and while you can go in for the bells
and whistles controls that add lots of extra files that do goodness
knows what to the site, for editing HTML and laying out ASP.NET
controls it does a good job. I particularly like the
[
Dynamic Web Templates](http://office.microsoft.com/assistance/preview.aspx?AssetID=HP030923211033&CTT=4&Origin=CH010504771033) that allow you to create a template page
and specify multiple areas that can be edited for page instances.
These templates can include menu controls that automatically
populate and update pages derived from them as you add new
navigation links.

So last night I sat down and started mapping out the site in
FrontPage and I finished it off today incorporating the previous
content and deleting the stuff that had become too out of date and
that I didn't have time to keep up. Since I only have a handful of
pages, the whole process only took me a few hours including getting
to grips with a few FrontPage foibles. Hopefully, it will be a lot
easier to manage now.
