---
slug: 7826f25163ca406caee7ec2c11066a75
title: IEPrint instructions
wordpress_id: 393
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2005/06/21/7826f25163ca406caee7ec2c11066a75/'
last_modified_at: 2005-06-21T16:35:32.000Z
---

Recently, there have been a few links in popular places to my
   [IEPrint
   add-in](/software/) for printing from IE6. Given that this was a quick
   project written in a couple of days about three years ago and
   mostly for my own benefit, my laziness in not writing proper
   documentation or building a more intuitive installation page has
   come back to bite me. What's more, with my
   [recent
   work on printing in IE7](http://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2005/06/10/428149.aspx), I'm on shaky IP ground to go back
   and make changes.

Rather than continuing to reply individually to everyone that
complains that it isn't working, I thought I'd write up the
instructions here again:

The correct download page really is
[
this one](/software/download/IEPrint.htm). What should happen is that you get a request to
install an ActiveX package that contains the add-in. Once this is
installed, you are redirected back to the site home page (yeah,
yeah, that was lazy). Since this was written before XP SP2, I
expect horrible things happen with the information bar at the top
of screen. At some point I'll find time to try this and update the
instructions here with more specific SP2 information.

Now, one of two things happens next. Either a new button will
appear on the IE toolbar when you next restart the browser, or you
will need to manually right click on the toolbar, choose Customize,
and add the "Fit-width Print" button to your current selection.

After that, you're ready to go. Click the button to print or
hold the control key on the keyboard down while you click the
button to go to print preview. The add-in will use the width of the
browser window on screen to control the size on the page. This
means if you have lots of white space on the screen, you'll get
lots of whitespace on the page. Alternatively, if you have a
horizontal scrollbar on screen because the window isn't wide
enough, you'll get the whole of the content mapped to the width of
the page including everything you can scroll to. For the person
that had a massive line of text off to the right, this meant that
things got pretty small when printed. Sorry about that.

I should say that the printing support in IE7 is much more
intuitive than this but this add-in might get you by until IE7 is
released.

**Update**: If you have are running on XP SP2 then the
download page will redirect you to the home page and show the
information bar at the top of the screen saying that the page
attempted to install an ActiveX control and to click to install it.
If you click the bar and choose install, the add-in will then be
correctly installed. Close all your IE windows and then start IE
and the toolbar button should be there. If not, follow the
instructions above.

**Update 2**: A kind correspondent pointed out that they
needed Local Admin rights to install the add-in.
