---
comments: false
date: 2005-02-27T00:32:48.000Z
layout: single
slug: 9cb90c98cf13431c93febde1b29eb294
title: ASMX 2.0 - Basic Profile 1.0 Conformance
wordpress_id: 365
old_link: 'https://adrianba.net/2005/02/26/9cb90c98cf13431c93febde1b29eb294/'
---
ASP.NET web services (commonly known as ASMX web services) have
been a part of the .NET Framework from the beginning in v1.0 when
it was still early days in the web services world. A number of
enhancements have been made to ASMX in version 2.0 of the framework
and one in particular is aimed at helping developers achieve
improved interoperability with other web service platforms.

The original SOAP 1.1 and WSDL 1.1 specifications were very
broadly defined and this has made interop a difficult goal. Through
a standards organisation called the
[WS-I](http://www.ws-i.org/), a specification called
[
Basic Profile Version 1.0](http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/Basic/2003-05/BasicProfile-1.0-WGAD.htm) (BP) was created that defines a
profile or subset of the SOAP and WSDL specs that should be used.
By providing a set of rules that narrows the scope of web service
implementations there is a greater chance that different platforms
can work together successfully. ASMX 2.0 includes checks against
all the BP rules to determine if your web service is compliant.

Existing web services from the 1.0 or 1.1 version of .NET when
run with the 2.0 version of the framework will be checked to see if
they are BP compliant. A warning will be given on the documentation
page if the web service is non-compliant but either way the service
will continue to work as it did with previous versions. Any
warnings are just for information and can be disabled if you
choose. The following file, simple.asmx, demonstrates this:
    
    
    <%@ WebService Language="C#" Class="SimpleService" %>
    
    using System.Web.Services;
    using System.Web.Services.Protocols;
    
    [WebService(Namespace="urn:simple")]
    public class SimpleService {
    
            [WebMethod, <span style="background-color:yellow">SoapRpcMethod</span>]
            public string Hello(string s) {
                    return string.Format("Hello, {0}!",s);
            }
    
    }
    

The Hello method has the SoapRpcMethod attribute causing it to
use a SOAP rpc/encoded binding. This is not allowed by the Basic
Profile and so the documentation page for the web service gives the
warning "This web service does not conform to WS-I Basic Profile
v1.0." The specific BP rule that has been violated is quoted
together with a recommendation for what to do to make the service
compliant. If we remove the SoapRpcMethod attribute, the warning
goes away and the service conforms.

New web services built for the 2.0 framework can explicitly
declare their BP compliance using the ComformanceClaims property of
the WebServiceBinding attribute:
    
    
    <%@ WebService Language="C#" Class="SimpleService" %>
    
    using System.Web.Services;
    using System.Web.Services.Protocols;
    
    [WebService(Namespace="urn:simple")]
    <span style="background-color:yellow">[WebServiceBinding(ConformanceClaims=WsiClaims.BP10,EmitConformanceClaims=true)]</span>
    public class SimpleService {
    
            [WebMethod]
            public string Hello(string s) {
                    return string.Format("Hello, {0}!",s);
            }
    
    }
    

The WebServiceBinding attribute adds a claim for conformance to
the Basic Profile 1.0. The EmitConfirmanceClaims property exposes
this claim in a machine readable way by including the following XML
as part of the WSDL for the web service:
    
    
    <wsdl:documentation>
      <wsi:Claim conformsTo="http://ws-i.org/profiles/basic/1.0" xmlns:wsi="http://ws-i.org/schemas/conformanceClaim/" /> 
    </wsdl:documentation>
    

Asserting Basic Profile 1.0 conformance using the
WebServiceBinding attribute enforces the rules checking. If the
service is non-conformant then an exception will be generated
rather than the warning if the attribute is not present. This makes
sense: you can't assert conformance and then not achieve it. As
with the warning, the exception message tells you which rules
weren't satisfied and suggests how to fix the problem.

As different platforms address conformance to the Basic Profile
it will be much easier to build interoperable web services and
clients right first time.

Update: This code is written with Beta 1 of .NET 2.0 which uses
Basic Profile v1.0. Beta 2 will use the Basic Profile 1.1.
